Documentation/bup-ls.md, before:

% bup-ls(1) Bup %BUP_VERSION%
% Avery Pennarun <apenwarr@gmail.com>
% %BUP_DATE%

# NAME

bup-ls - list the contents of a bup repository

# SYNOPSIS

bup ls [-s] [-a] <paths...>

# DESCRIPTION

`bup ls` lists files and directories in your bup repository
using the same directory hierarchy as they would have with
`bup-fuse`(1).

The top level directory contains the branch (corresponding to
the `-n` option in `bup save`), the next level is the date
of the backup, and subsequent levels correspond to files in
the backup.

Note that `bup ls` doesn't show hidden files by default and one needs to use
the `-a` option to show them. Files are hidden when their name begins with a
dot. For example, on the topmost level, the special directories named `.commit`
and `.tag` are hidden directories.

Once you have identified the file you want using `bup ls`,
you can view its contents using `bup join` or `git show`.

# OPTIONS

-s, --hash
:   show hash for each file/directory.

-a, --all
:   show hidden files.

# EXAMPLE

    bup ls /myserver/latest/etc/profile

    bup ls -a /

# SEE ALSO

`bup-join`(1), `bup-fuse`(1), `bup-ftp`(1), `bup-save`(1), `git-show`(1)

# BUP

Part of the `bup`(1) suite.

Commit message:

ftp/ls: Adjust documentation
Now that 'bup ftp ls' and 'bup ls' have the same features, adjust both
commands' man pages.

Signed-off-by: Gabriel Filion <lelutin@gmail.com>

Documentation/bup-ls.md, after:

% bup-ls(1) Bup %BUP_VERSION%
% Avery Pennarun <apenwarr@gmail.com>
% %BUP_DATE%

# NAME

bup-ls - list the contents of a bup repository

# SYNOPSIS

bup ls [-s] [-a] <paths...>

# DESCRIPTION

`bup ls` lists files and directories in your bup repository
using the same directory hierarchy as they would have with
`bup-fuse`(1).

The top level directory contains the branch (corresponding to
the `-n` option in `bup save`), the next level is the date
of the backup, and subsequent levels correspond to files in
the backup.

When `bup ls` is asked to output on a tty, it formats its output
in columns so that it can list as much as possible in as few lines
as possible. However, when `bup ls` is asked to output to something
other than a tty (say you pipe the output to another command, or you
redirect it to a file), it will output one file name per line. This
makes the listing easier to parse with external tools.

Note that `bup ls` doesn't show hidden files by default and one needs to use
the `-a` option to show them. Files are hidden when their name begins with a
dot. For example, on the topmost level, the special directories named `.commit`
and `.tag` are hidden directories.

Once you have identified the file you want using `bup ls`,
you can view its contents using `bup join` or `git show`.

# OPTIONS

-s, --hash
:   show hash for each file/directory.

-a, --all
:   show hidden files.

# EXAMPLE

    bup ls /myserver/latest/etc/profile

    bup ls -a /

# SEE ALSO

`bup-join`(1), `bup-fuse`(1), `bup-ftp`(1), `bup-save`(1), `git-show`(1)

# BUP

Part of the `bup`(1) suite.
