Documentation/bup-fuse.md, before:

% bup-fuse(1) Bup %BUP_VERSION%
% Avery Pennarun <apenwarr@gmail.com>
% %BUP_DATE%

# NAME

bup-fuse - mount a bup repository as a filesystem

# SYNOPSIS

bup fuse [-d] [-f] [-o] \<mountpoint\>

# DESCRIPTION

`bup fuse` opens a bup repository and exports it as a
`fuse`(7) userspace filesystem.

This feature is only available on systems (such as Linux)
which support FUSE.

**WARNING**: bup fuse is still experimental and does not
enforce any file permissions!  All files will be readable
by all users.

When you're done accessing the mounted fuse filesystem, you
should unmount it with `umount`(8).

# OPTIONS

-d, \--debug
:   run in the foreground and print FUSE debug information
    for each request.

-f, \--foreground
:   run in the foreground and exit only when the filesystem
    is unmounted.

-o, \--allow-other
:   permit other users to access the filesystem. Necessary for
    exporting the filesystem via Samba, for example.

# EXAMPLES
    rm -rf /tmp/buptest
    mkdir /tmp/buptest
    sudo bup fuse -d /tmp/buptest
    ls /tmp/buptest/*/latest
    ...
    umount /tmp/buptest

# SEE ALSO

`fuse`(7), `fusermount`(1), `bup-ls`(1), `bup-ftp`(1),
`bup-restore`(1), `bup-web`(1)

# BUP

Part of the `bup`(1) suite.

Commit message:

fuse-cmd.py: given --meta, report original metadata
Add a new --meta option to "bup fuse", and when specified, report the
original mode, uid, gid, atime, mtime, and ctime for the mounted
paths.

Since negative timestamps cause access errors, and cause "ls -l" to
report question marks for the stat values, set a floor of 0 for all
timestamps reported to python-fuse.

Signed-off-by: Rob Browning <rlb@defaultvalue.org>

Documentation/bup-fuse.md, after:

% bup-fuse(1) Bup %BUP_VERSION%
% Avery Pennarun <apenwarr@gmail.com>
% %BUP_DATE%

# NAME

bup-fuse - mount a bup repository as a filesystem

# SYNOPSIS

bup fuse [-d] [-f] [-o] \<mountpoint\>

# DESCRIPTION

`bup fuse` opens a bup repository and exports it as a
`fuse`(7) userspace filesystem.

This feature is only available on systems (such as Linux)
which support FUSE.

**WARNING**: bup fuse is still experimental and does not
enforce any file permissions!  All files will be readable
by all users.

When you're done accessing the mounted fuse filesystem, you
should unmount it with `umount`(8).

# OPTIONS

-d, \--debug
:   run in the foreground and print FUSE debug information
    for each request.

-f, \--foreground
:   run in the foreground and exit only when the filesystem
    is unmounted.

-o, \--allow-other
:   permit other users to access the filesystem. Necessary for
    exporting the filesystem via Samba, for example.

\--meta
:   report some of the original metadata (when available) for the
    mounted paths (currently the uid, gid, mode, and timestamps).
    Without this, only generic values will be presented.  This option
    is not yet enabled by default because it may negatively affect
    performance, and note that any timestamps before 1970-01-01 UTC
    (i.e. before the Unix epoch) will be presented as 1970-01-01 UTC.

# EXAMPLES
    rm -rf /tmp/buptest
    mkdir /tmp/buptest
    sudo bup fuse -d /tmp/buptest
    ls /tmp/buptest/*/latest
    ...
    umount /tmp/buptest

# SEE ALSO

`fuse`(7), `fusermount`(1), `bup-ls`(1), `bup-ftp`(1),
`bup-restore`(1), `bup-web`(1)

# BUP

Part of the `bup`(1) suite.
